So up until now we've been
calculating path length
based on the number of hops between
our beginning node and our end node.
This is roughly equivalent to counting
the number of towns between one town and
another town.
But it doesn't really get at
the value that is usually of
greatest importance to us.
And that is the actual distance between
one location and another location.
Which is found in the values that we've
assigned to the edges between the nodes.
So in this next example, we're going
to perform that kind of a calculation.
So the first two lines of code
we're already fairly familiar with.
We're matching a path between node a and
node c,
where the first node is H,
and the second node is P.
And this third line of code
is also fairly familiar.
We're extracting the names of the nodes
and the path that's been returned, and
we're returning a listing of those
names as well as a length of the path.
All of that is being returned
as the variable pathLength.
We've added a third element
to our return statement, and
that is using the reduce statement.
So what we're doing here is,
the purpose of the reduce statement,
takes a set of values and
reduces them down to a single value.
So in this line of code we begin by
setting a variable s equal to 0.
And then we define a variable E, which
represents the set of relationships in
a path that's returned, or
in other words, the edges.
And we pass that into this variable s,
and add to it,
the value of the distance that
we've assigned to that edge.
So we're performing
an aggregate calculation.
And returning the final results
to a variable called pathDist.
And we're limiting that
results to a single value.
And so when we do this, we should
get a value that is more indicative
of the actual distance between
our source and our destination.
And so here's the results.
The path itself, as we know,
begins in H and ends in P.
And it has a pathLength of 7,
but it has a pathDist of 39.
So we could interpret this to mean
that even though there are 6 towns
between the source town and
the destination town, or
a pathLength of 7, the actual distance
in miles would be a value of 39.
So with that we can apply
Dijkstra's algorithm.
So here I'm going to match the node with
the name A, and the node with the name P.
And we're going to find the shortest
path in terms of hops from A to P.
And we'll set that equal
to the variable path.
Then we'll perform a reduce command,
and set the variable dist = 0.
And we'll go through, and
sum all of the distances of each
of the edges in our shortest path.
And return that value as a distance.
And we'll also return the path variable.
So remember, this is not the path in
our network with the least weights.
It is the weight of the shortest
path based on numbers of hops.
Now that's an inherent feature of
the shortest path command in Cipher.
So here is the path that's returned.
It's a five node path with four edges and
the total sum of the weights of
those edges sums to a value of 22.
So in our previous query,
we specified that we wanted a match for
the source node and the destination node.
But if I don't specify my destination
node, I can apply Dijkstra's single
source shortest path algorithm
from node A to any other node.
So when we apply this query,
the results displayed consist of
the actual original path from
A to P with a distance of 22.
And we'll see a display of all of
the intermediate paths generated in
the process, all the way down to
a single edge path between A and C.
So just to reiterate, what we've
calculated is the shortest hop path
with the weights added, the sum of
the weights of the edges in that path.
This is not the least weight
path of the entire network.
Okay, so let's switch gears for a moment.
As we learned in one of our previous
lectures, we can extract a subset
of nodes and edges from a particular
graph for various reasons.
Let's say for example that we want
to avoid a particular town or
a particular area where
there might be congestion.
And this would be represented
by one of our nodes.
So we're going to perform a similar
match as we've done in the past,
where we're going to match any node n with
any node m, with a two edge between them.
But we want to apply an additional
constrained in which none of the n nodes
are going to include the node D.
And none of the m nodes are going
to include the node D as well.
And then we'll return the resulting graph.
So when we do that, we get a graph but
looks very much as we might expect.
Very similar to our previous graph,
but it is missing node D, so
it only has ten nodes and
it's now been reduced to ten edges.
So now let's say we want to calculate
the shortest path over there graph that we
just returned in the previous query.
So in this case, we're going to match the
shortest path between node A and node P.
But in the second line, we want to
issue sort of a negative statement
in which the resulting list of
node names that we extract using
the extract statement
cannot contain the node D.
And then we'll return that path and
the length of that path.
So when we issue this command,
here's our resulting path.
It's a five node path of length four.
As we recall from one of our earlier
queries where we were trying to calculate
all of the shortest paths,
we returned two paths.
One path that contained D, and this is
the second path, which did not contain D.
So we can make this a little complicated.
Instead of avoiding a single node in
our resulting path, we're looking for
a graph that doesn't contain the immediate
neighborhood of a specific node.
This means all of the nearest, or
the first neighbors of a specific node.
So in this case we're going
to match the same node D, and
all edges between D, and any other node.
And then we are going to issue
a collect command to collect all of
the distinct neighbors of D.
And we'll apply a constraint to that,
in which the returned
list of neighbors cannot contain
the node with the name D.
Likewise, the neighbors list for
the target nodes,
can also not contain the node D.
And when we submit this command,
we see a network that looks like this.
Five nodes and four edges.
And that seems to makes sense.
Node D isn't in the network,
nor are its first neighbors.
But if you recall the original network,
there may be a peculiar result that you
might find a little bit disconcerting.
So let's look at our original network.
Now here's the node D, and
here are all it's nearest neighbors.
So these are the forbidden
neighbors that we want to
remove from our resulting graph.
And we seemed to have
done that successfully.
These are the five nodes that
are retained in the resulting graph, but
there's a node out here.
The node p, which seems to be neglected or
not handled in the results.
It's not a first neighbor of D.
So it, in some ways arguably should
be returned in our results, but
it's not part of the connected
graph that we saw returned.
This is one area in which Cipher does
not handle these situations by default.
So we'll need to supplement our
query with an additional query.
In this case, the node P was a leaf node,
so we want to make sure that
not only matching the nodes that
conform to these constraints above.
But we also want to include the node or
any nodes which are leaf nodes,
which may also be arguably part of the
results that you expect to be returned.
Now in our network,
we do have one root node,
but it doesn't impact the results
in this particular query.
In the interests of being complete, for
any network, most networks being much more
complex than the one we're working with.
We'd want to take into account not only
those leaf nodes that might be left out,
but also any root notes
that might be left out.
And finally, our last query
example extends the previous query
to find the graph which doesn't
contain a selective neighborhood,
in this case,
the two neighborhood of a particular node.
In this example we're
going to use the node F.
And we want to eliminate all of
the second neighbors of that node.
So initially we match all of those
nodes that are second neighbors of F,
including F itself.
And we'll place those in
a variable called MyList.
Then we go back through the network and
match all of the nodes and
edges, where the source nodes are not
part of the nodes in the MyList and
the target nodes are not
contained in MyList.
And then we return those nodes and edges.
And here's the resulting graph.
It does not contain F or
its first or second neighbors.
If we scroll down to look at the original
graph, here's node F, nodes H,
J, C, A and L are all the first and
second neighbors of F.
So those should be eliminated from the
graph that gets returned from our results.
And sure enough,
this subset of nodes represents the
results that were returned from our query.
It consists of nodes B, D, E, G, and P.
And so this concludes our review
of some of the more advanced
path analytics queries.
We were using a simple network, but
we're providing additional data
sets that are much larger and
present a more realistic challenge
in applying pathanalythics queries.